README.rst, before:

pyodesys
========

.. image:: http://hera.physchem.kth.se:9090/api/badges/bjodah/pyodesys/status.svg
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se:9090/bjodah/pyodesys
   :alt: Build status
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyodesys.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyodesys
   :alt: PyPI version
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-2.7,3.4,3.5-blue.svg
   :target: https://www.python.org/
   :alt: Python version
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pyodesys.svg
   :target: https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys/blob/master/LICENSE
   :alt: License
.. image:: http://img.shields.io/badge/benchmarked%20by-asv-green.svg?style=flat
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/benchmarks
   :alt: airspeedvelocity
.. image:: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/htmlcov/coverage.svg
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/htmlcov
   :alt: coverage

`pyodesys <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys>`_ provides a straightforward way
of numerically integrating systems of ordinary differential equations. It unifies
the interface of several libraries. It also provides a convenience class for 
representing and integrating ODE systems defined by `SymPy <http://www.sympy.org>`_
expressions.

The numerical integration is perfomed using eiher:

- `scipy.integrate.ode <http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.integrate.ode.html>`_
- `pygslodeiv2 <https://github.com/bjodah/pygslodeiv2>`_
- `pyodeint <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodeint>`_
- `pycvodes <https://github.com/bjodah/pycvodes>`_


Note that implicit steppers which require a user supplied
callback for calculating the jacobian is provided automatically by pyodesys.

Documentation
-------------
Autogenerated API documentation for latest stable release is found here:
`<https://bjodah.github.io/pyodesys/latest>`_
(and the development version for the current master branch are found here:
`<http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/html>`_).


Installation
------------
Simplest way to install pyodesys and its (optional) dependencies is to use the `conda package manager <http://conda.pydata.org/docs/>`_:

::

   $ conda install -c bjodah pyodesys pytest
   $ python -m pytest --pyargs pyodesys

alternatively you may also use `pip`:

::

   $ python -m pip install --user pyodesys[all]

see `setup.py <setup.py>`_ for optional requirements.

Example
-------
The classic van der Pol oscillator (see `examples/van_der_pol.py <examples/van_der_pol.py>`_)

.. code:: python

   >>> from pyodesys.symbolic import SymbolicSys
   >>> def f(t, y, p):
   ...     return [y[1], -y[0] + p[0]*y[1]*(1 - y[0]**2)]
   ...
   >>> odesys = SymbolicSys.from_callback(f, 2, 1)
   >>> xout, yout, info = odesys.integrate(10, [1, 0], [1], integrator='odeint', nsteps=1000)
   >>> _ = odesys.plot_result()
   >>> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt; plt.show()  # doctest: +SKIP

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bjodah/pyodesys/master/examples/van_der_pol.png

for more examples, see `examples/ <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys/tree/master/examples>`_, and rendered jupyter notebooks here:
`<http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/examples>`_

License
-------
The source code is Open Source and is released under the simplified 2-clause BSD license. See `LICENSE <LICENSE>`_ for further details.
Contributors are welcome to suggest improvements at https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys

Author
------
Björn I. Dahlgren, contact:

- gmail address: bjodah
- kth.se address: bda

Commit message:

Update README, conda recipe, CI script and tweak native code classes

README.rst, after:

pyodesys
========

.. image:: http://hera.physchem.kth.se:9090/api/badges/bjodah/pyodesys/status.svg
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se:9090/bjodah/pyodesys
   :alt: Build status
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pyodesys.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyodesys
   :alt: PyPI version
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-2.7,3.4,3.5-blue.svg
   :target: https://www.python.org/
   :alt: Python version
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pyodesys.svg
   :target: https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys/blob/master/LICENSE
   :alt: License
.. image:: http://img.shields.io/badge/benchmarked%20by-asv-green.svg?style=flat
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/benchmarks
   :alt: airspeedvelocity
.. image:: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/htmlcov/coverage.svg
   :target: http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/htmlcov
   :alt: coverage
.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/43131469.svg
   :target: https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/43131469
   :alt: Zenodo DOI

`pyodesys <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys>`_ provides a straightforward way
of numerically integrating systems of ordinary differential equations (intial value problems).
It unifies the interface of several python libraries. It also provides a convenience class for 
representing and integrating ODE systems defined by symbolic expressions, e.g. `SymPy <http://www.sympy.org>`_
expressions.

The numerical integration is perfomed using eiher:

- `scipy.integrate.ode <http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.integrate.ode.html>`_
- `pygslodeiv2 <https://github.com/bjodah/pygslodeiv2>`_
- `pyodeint <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodeint>`_
- `pycvodes <https://github.com/bjodah/pycvodes>`_

Note that implicit steppers which require a user supplied
callback for calculating the jacobian is provided automatically by pyodesys.

When performance is of outmost importance, e.g. in model fitting where results are needed
for a large set of initial conditions and parameters choices, the user may transparently
rely on compiled native code (code generation). This has the benefit that there is no need
to manually rewrite the corresponing expressions in another programming language.

Documentation
-------------
Autogenerated API documentation for latest stable release is found here:
`<https://bjodah.github.io/pyodesys/latest>`_
(and the development version for the current master branch are found here:
`<http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/html>`_).


Installation
------------
Simplest way to install pyodesys and its (optional) dependencies is to use the `conda package manager <http://conda.pydata.org/docs/>`_:

::

   $ conda install -c bjodah pyodesys pytest
   $ python -m pytest --pyargs pyodesys

alternatively you may also use `pip`:

::

   $ python -m pip install --user pyodesys[all]

see `setup.py <setup.py>`_ for optional requirements.

Example
-------
The classic van der Pol oscillator (see `examples/van_der_pol.py <examples/van_der_pol.py>`_)

.. code:: python

   >>> from pyodesys.symbolic import SymbolicSys
   >>> def f(t, y, p):
   ...     return [y[1], -y[0] + p[0]*y[1]*(1 - y[0]**2)]
   ...
   >>> odesys = SymbolicSys.from_callback(f, 2, 1)
   >>> xout, yout, info = odesys.integrate(10, [1, 0], [1], integrator='odeint', nsteps=1000)
   >>> _ = odesys.plot_result()
   >>> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt; plt.show()  # doctest: +SKIP

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bjodah/pyodesys/master/examples/van_der_pol.png

for more examples, see `examples/ <https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys/tree/master/examples>`_, and rendered jupyter notebooks here:
`<http://hera.physchem.kth.se/~pyodesys/branches/master/examples>`_

License
-------
The source code is Open Source and is released under the simplified 2-clause BSD license. See `LICENSE <LICENSE>`_ for further details.
Contributors are welcome to suggest improvements at https://github.com/bjodah/pyodesys

Author
------
Björn I. Dahlgren, contact:

- gmail address: bjodah
- kth.se address: bda
